PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Introduction to Hotel Management System Project The theme of my Project is Hotel Management System. This Project is a finethought to make the complex procedure of the Hotel management system to aneasy manner which is systematic, modular designed, selective menu based userdisplay. The modular design and constructed system is very much user oriented inwhich user can easily understand the tools and can do edit of his own choice. Thesystem is not any tough more and does not possesses many applications but it ismade by focusing on the maintaining records employee’s actions in acomputerized system rather than time taking and cumbersome manual system.

The project is a software application that can be easily handled by minimum educated and simple computer knowledge person without any option of error. Only Administrators or the employees/staff of the hotel can access this software.The Administrator is the authorized user who has power to change or edit theupdates as well as the Password. In case of the forgetting of password there isprovision to password recovery and Logout and Login in the system.The Purpose of the whole process is to ease the daily or regular activities of theHotel Management into an automatic computerized retrievable process. The daily activities includes the Room activities, Entering details of the new customer checkin, To allocate a room as per the customer need and interest, Recording thecheckout time and details, Releasing or Empty of room and to record the processin a computer system for future.Due to time constraint and the minimum resources, the system is not made forthe high level use. But the Management system can use the application in a very easy and minimum effort.

The application of the Hotel Management System bears the following functions touse by the Administrator:-
1. Room status
2. New Room inauguration
3. Allocated Room Modification
4. Details for the Customer Check in and Check out
5. New Customer Admission
6. New Admins admission
7. Allocation of Room as per the Customer Interest
8. Statement and Transactions of the Customer
9. The extra services availed by the customers
10. The customer order details
11. Admission or deletion of services from the hotel system
12. Orders from the customers
13. Separate Customer Report.